New knowledge comes from observation and/or reasoning, applied to previous knowledge. All knowledge breakthroughs in the past have come from this process: starting with a certain base of knowledge, someone observed or reasoned about some new idea, and then tested to see if that idea was true. This is the basic simplified root of the scientific method. This is also why something like the concept of “gravity”, even though it has always existed, couldn’t be discovered until there were enough other ideas about physics and math in the world to get someone ready to have that observation, to be primed for that breakthrough. This is also why, across history, the same breakthroughs occur at the same time in different places by people who are not working together: once the global base of knowledge reaches a certain point, many people will have all the background knowledge necessary to make the logical connection or observation needed to find a new idea. This has implications on our understanding of the role of the individual in research; while, yes, an individual (or small group of individuals) will ultimately make these new breakthroughs, they are also relying on the entire history of human knowledge to prepare them to make that leap; it doesn’t happen in a vacuum. Just like evolution doesn’t happen in one jump (it wasn’t possible for the primordial soup of molecules on the early earth to morph directly into a thinking human being), knowledge must also evolve through the adjacent possible. This means that individuals are not as crucial to the development of new knowledge as we believe them to be, and that in a system where knowledge is free many people will make the same discovery. The knowledge already “exists” out in the universe, and people who have been prepared to see that knowledge will find it. This also means that locking up knowledge behind intellectual property laws goes against this fundamental law of the universe: knowledge is derivable by anyone with the right knowledge and observations, and cannot actually be owned. This is why IP law must be enforced through courts and coercion.

##### Comments:

[[Jeremy]]: I’d like to add stuff about the high cost of ‘negative research’ that is needed to find positive/useful/iable research (“Another important caveat in understanding the true value of trade secrets is that even information about what not to do may be extremely important in gaining competitive advantage. For example, negative research and development results may not only increase the amount of available proprietary knowledge, but may also expedite commercialization by competitors if such information becomes known to competitors.“) - to point to how capitalism basically blocks collective intelligence and collective learning (+ ‘unprofitable’ viable alternatives lying unused behind corporate firewalls), resulting now in a delayed/weakened collective capacity to respond to climate change and other existential threats.