The simplest system has one input, one process, and one output. The classic example is a heat thermostat: the input is “current temperature”, the process is “check to see if the current temperature is lower than the set temperature”, and the output is “heat (or no heat)”. This system runs continuously, constantly checking the temperature, and turning the heater on or off. Using such a simple example, it’s easy to reason about the “shape” of this system. There is a minimum temperature that the system allows before it starts to “fight” against the decreasing temperature. We know that this system can only raise the temperature, and that it can’t help us if a room is too hot. However, this system is abstract; in the real world this system has more inputs, like the fuel source for the heater. We can also say, since the current temperature is set by a human, that the mood, health, or preferences of the human are part of this system as well. If the human is sick with a fever, they may change the set temperature frequently, so now we might want to include the environment of the bacteria that is causing the infection, and the status of the human’s immune system that is fighting the bacteria. We can go on and on expanding the scope of the system like this forever. This illustrates some key points:

-   The only way we can talk about real world systems is through abstractions, or models
-   Depending on what we are trying to understand, you can expand or contract any system’s model to encompass all physical matter in the universe in complete detail (like modelling every subatomic particle interaction), or to cover only the most simple abstract concepts (like “yes or no”)
-   When we model systems, they are most useful to us when they are as abstract as they can be, without losing critical information: too abstract and the model does a bad job at predicting what will actually happen; too detailed and they become difficult to process and reason about.
-   All models of real world systems are subsets of the single [[The Universal System|universal system]]
-   \[Something about reverse-engineering systems to find out how they work? -> basically what we do with the scientific method to discover new stuff - reverse engineering phenomena in the natural world around us\]