---
tags:
- systems
- abstractions
---
If we have a simple system, like a [[Simple Systems|thermostat]] that checks a temperature and turns a heater on or off, we can expand our *model* of the system to be more complex, depending on our goal. As a user of the thermostat, our model is that the heat gets turned on if the actual temperature is below our set temperature. If we are the electrical engineer working on the thermostat itself, we may model the more complex details of how the thermostat works, like the electrical components and wiring schematics. If we are an HVAC engineer, perhaps we will expand our system model to be more detailed about how the actual heating element is interacting with its surroundings, looking at the material of the heating coils and the potential humidity range in the environment it will be installed. Or, if we are a doctor, we care more about the human setting the temperature on the thermostat, and if the human is sick with a fever they may change the set temperature frequently, so we want to include the environment of the bacteria that is causing the infection, and the status of the human’s immune system that is fighting the bacteria, and finally how the new temperature of the room will affect that human.

The most important thing to understand here is that even though these are all quite different models, in the real world all of the same things are happening regardless of what model we are using to look at it. This is why we cannot forget that [[Systems as Models|systems are just models]], and that many different systems can be used to look at the same events. Just because the HVAC engineer is not concerned with the bacterial infection of the human operating the thermostat, doesn't mean that that infection won't still influence the temperature that gets set in the system.

This also gets to one final point. Following these rules of expansion and the fact that each system model is just describing a part of the "real" events points to a very important fundamental concept: all models of real world systems are subsets of the single [[The Universal System|universal system]], which encompases every single input, process, and output in the universe.